>> Brian Holt: Let's go actually
start typing our project.
The thing that you're gonna find with any
type system that you slowly introduce to
your project is that up front it's a lot
more burden than it is helpful, right?
If you're only type-checking one file,
it's basically accepting a bunch of
what we're gonna call anytypes and
I'll explain to you momentarily
what that stands, what that means.
But as we slowly expand and more files
are being typed, you're gonna find
that once everything is typed then
it's a huge productivity boon for you.
It's just up front you're gonna
have to pay a pretty steep cost,
to be totally honest.
So let's go to search JSX and
actually do some typing.
>> Brian Holt: So
the way that you opt in a file to be
checked with flow is //@flow.
It has, you can see already,
my editor is already complains, hey,
you told me to check flow,
now you got screwed up a bunch of stuff.
Actually it's only one
thing which is nice.
But you can see here it says,
hey, this isn't working yet.
>> Brian Holt: And that's because flow
wants to have type annotations for
parameters,
>> Brian Holt: Which is what we're
gonna do.
And then the other thing is that, so
we're gonna be doing more
invalid JavaScript, right?
Adding type annotations to your code is
not valid JavaScript because there's no
type annotations in JavaScript.
So you would need a babble plugin
to transform your code from code
that has flow annotations
to normal JavaScript.
Luckily for us, we're including
the React preset for babble.
And that includes the flow
annotation removing code.
So if you're not including that,
you have to include that now but
since we included that preset,
in fact, I'll show you real quick.
Babel rc, this right here,
this line makes it so
that our code is already able to
remove those flow type annotations.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, sorry,
going back to Search.jsx.
So now we wanna type this event, right?
Because, otherwise,
if you go here to run flow,
it's gonna say, hey,
you need an annotation here.
I don't know what this is, right?
The other thing to note is notice
this ran really fast, right?
As opposed to last time,
it took a bit to start up.
Before it was starting up that process.
But now it's just running
constantly in the background.
So now it's really fast.
Okay, so
we need to add a type annotation to this.
What is this?
And you're gonna find yourself asking
that question a lot when you're adding
types to something.
But what this is it's a really positive
thing, not just for your future self and
getting the flow type and
all stuff like that.
But it's useful for you to think through
what your code actually does, right?
And you'll find here that you'll start
refactoring things to be more concise,
because you're more aware of what's going
in the functions that what's coming out
of them.
That becomes very important
when you're doing types.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So this is a keyboard event.
>> Brian Holt: What's nice about
specifically flow is it has all of this
browser stuff already typed for you.
You don't have to do anything.
Keyboard event already exists.
And if you want to look at them,
go to flowtype.org.
Another place that if you're
gonna do flow typing,
you gotta spend a lot of
time in the documentations.
And there's the type system,
there's library definitions,
configurations, all that kind of stuff.
>> Brian Holt: And I would also
recommend that you put this into
your editor, like I have.
So again, I'm gonna show you for sublime,
we're gonna say install package,
I'm gonna show you a list cuz
I already have it installed.
And then if you go down here,
remember that I installed
the sublime linter, right?
For the ESLinting, there's another
one called SublimeLinter-flow and
I'm gonna get all those flow
errors directly into my editor.
It already exists for Atom as well, I
can't remember the name of the package off
the top of my head but I know this one
called Nuclide, that Facebook puts out.
I'd have very little
experience with Nuclide but
Nuclide was specifically built
by Facebook with flow in mind.
Okay, so
this is a keyboard event that iss actually
not even 100% true because this is
a React synthetic keyboard event.
Again, luckily, since this is built by
Facebook, they already provided for
this, so this is actually
a synthetic KeyboardEvent,
we'll stick with KeyboardEvent for
just the second.
>> Brian Holt: Now what this is gonna
complain about is it's still saying right
here that event.target.value
is not guaranteed to be there.
That's because when you
have a keyboard event,
it is possible for the browser to admit
to keyboard event with no target.
Don't ask me how that happens but it is
possible, and so flow is gonna make you
say I want you to acknowledge
that this is going to be there.
So what you can say is and
target is going to be
an HTML input element.
>> Brian Holt: And now that's been typed.
>> Brian Holt: SyntheticKeyboardEvent.
Why was that working for me before?
All right, react or
flow synthetic event.
>> Brian Holt: SyntheticKeyboardEvent.
>> Brian Holt: That's super weird to me.
I have no idea why it doesn't like that.
Okay.
Another problem I have
with sometimes with flow,
sometimes it's just slow on the uptake.
Cuz my yarn flow is not complaining, so
I'm sure it will eventually go away.
Particularly with flow,
sometimes it takes awhile for
it to kind of say,
you know what this is actually okay.
Take your input from
the command line as gospel.
Okay, so
we're gonna leave that alone for now.
>> Brian Holt: That's what it is.
So we have to go make ESLint
play okay with Flow as well.
>> Speaker 2: Is running
Yarn Flow output put a list of
files that it processed as flow files.
Or at least they count, or something.
>> Brian Holt: There's
something you can do.
And I would just look at the help.
That's what it is.
I'm going to come here to my project.
We're going to look into the eslint.json.
This is what you need,
which I don't have in my notes.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, that's the one.
Come to your eslint.json.
We need to let eslint to know,
hey we're going to be doing
a bunch of stuff with flow.
And that's okay so right there you're
gonna put plug in flow type recommended.
Plug in flow and
down there as well, I do, okay?
Aand then above prettier you're
gonna also have to have a flow
type plug in This is just saying
I have this plugin flow type for
the eslint, and I want you to bring
in all of their recommended rules.
They have more rules as well, but
I found they're a little too strict, so
I just bring in what they call
their recommended rule set.
>> Brian Holt: Okay now, so
yeah, again, we added two lines,
line number 9 right there, and
line number 3 right there.
And let's go take a look at Search again.
>> Brian Holt: And now it's going to
recognize a synthetic keyboard event is
actually a flow thing and that's okay.
Now the most beautiful part
about flow to me is it's
pretty good at already
knowing what everything is.
So the only reason that we had to annotate
event right here was that there was no way
that flow type could figure out what
that was eventually going to be,
how it was eventually going to be called.
So we had to go in and say hey, this is
what this is but everything else, right?
It knows that like search
now is a react component and
I never have to tell it that because
it's already figured that out.
So it does a ton of what's
called type inference for
you, just out of the box for
free which is pretty great.
It's even going to go as far to read
preload and into the json file and
see what's coming out of there,
and everything like that.
Which is awesome.
So let's go and do some more typing,
cuz that's always fun.
Let's go to show card.
We're going to opt this
one into flow typing.
As soon as you do that,
it's going to say a bunch of stuff.
>> Brian Holt: So the first thing is going
to say is styled components required
module not found that's a new one well
let's keep going with this anyway.
The thing about flowType is you
don't need propTypes anymore, right?
Because the type checking
that flow is gonna do for
you is more robust that anything
propTypes would ever do for you.
So we're actually just gonna
drop the propTypes here.
And then down here where it says
ShowCard.propTypes We're actually
just going to go up and type these
props right here, where they are.
I'm just going to copy this.
And then here I'm going to
make these prop types up here.
But you've got to get rid of all the,
is required stuff.
So I'm gonna just do this.
>> Brian Holt: What is with yarn flow.
What is with that.
More is required down there, yeah and
drop the propTypes down there,
you don't need those anymore.
>> Brian Holt: Yarn flow,
required module not found
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
>> Brian Holt: That is the issue.
So the problem that we've done here is
that we ignore south components but
we still have to acknowledge
that it's there, so
this is gonna be style-components,
I think.
Styled-components,
there we go.
So, do this came into the flow config
where it, we're trying to ignore this
directory because it has
a bunch of flow inside of it.
But we still have to acknowledge that it
exists otherwise it flow won't acknowledge
it exist so libs is just gonna say this
is something that I have coming in and
just don't type check this that's what
it does so come back to show card and
now hopefully
>> Brian Holt: It's resolved itself.
Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Why don't you love me,
what is your problem with me?
>> Brian Holt: Well,
is what it is right now.
>> Brian Holt: Flow fix me,
I think this is what it is
>> Brian Holt: We will come
back to this later, but for now if you
ever need to ignore a line which I do not
suggest you do unless you give me a live
workshop in front of hundreds of people,
you can use FlowFixMe to say ignore me for
now.